Compare with Wikibase tabular data model (#1059)
frictionlessdata/datapackage: content/docs/guides/mediawiki-tabular-data.md

sidebar:
  order: 3
---

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Authors</th>
    <td>Jakob Voß</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/) is the software used to run Wikipedia and related projects of the Wikimedia Foundation, including the media file repository [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/). Commons hosts mostly images but also some records with tabular data. The [MediaWiki Tabular Data Model](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data) was inspired by Data Package version 1 but it slightly differs from current Data Package specification, as described below.

## Property Comparison

A [MediaWiki tabular data page](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data) describes and contains an individual table of data similar to a [Data Resource](/standard/data-resource/) with inline tabular data. Both are serialized as JSON objects, but the former comes as a page with unique name in a MediaWiki instance (such as Wikimedia Commons).

### Top-level Properties

MediaWiki Tabular Data has three required and two optional top-level properties. Most of these properties map to corresponding properties of a Data Resource:

> | MediaWiki Tabular Data                                                                                                                     | Data Package Table Schema                                                             |

Reviewer: For easier maintenance, I would use the most simple form of a Markdown table (here and below), without whitespace or repeated `------` to align:

```
| MediaWiki Tabular Data | Data Package Table Schema |
| --- | --- |
| - (implied by page name) | [name](/standard/data-resource/#name) (required) is a string |
```

Author: Yes, I wrote it that way but the linter had another opinion.

Reviewer: Ow, that's an annoying linter setting. Ping @roll do contributors have to write Markdown tables that verbosely?

Reviewer 2: Yea we need to fix it. I had the same problem with CSVW doc so I just added it to the `.prettierignore`

| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| - (implied by page name)                                                                                                                   | [name](/standard/data-resource/#name) (required) is a string                          |
| [description](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (optional) is a localized string                          | [description](/standard/data-resource/#description) (optional) is a CommonMark string |
| [data](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (required)                                                       | [data](/standard/data-resource/#name) (optional)                                      |

> | [license](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (required) is the string `CC-1.0` or another known identifier | [licenses](/standard/data-resource/#licenses) (optional) is an array                  |

Reviewer: Typo correction:

```suggestion
| [license](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (required) is the string `CC0-1.0` or another known identifier | [licenses](/standard/data-resource/#licenses) (optional) is an array                  |
```

Note, it seems that is the only supported value, so might want to drop "or another known identifier"

> | [schema](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (required) as [described below](#schema-properties)            | [schema](/standard/data-resource/#schema) (optional) can have multiple forms          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [schema](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (required) as [described below](#schema-properties)            | [schema](/standard/data-resource/#schema) (optional)          |
```

Since Data Package schema is fully compatible, I would not mention "can have multiple forms"

Author: The [`schema` property of a Data Resource](https://datapackage.org/standard/data-resource/#schema) could also be an URL or path, this would not be compatible.

> | [sources](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (optional) is a string with Wiki markup                       | [sources](/standard/data-resource/#sources) (optional) is a an array of objects       |

Reviewer: Typo correction:

```suggestion
| [sources](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (optional) is a string with Wiki markup                       | [sources](/standard/data-resource/#sources) (optional) is an array of objects       |
```

> The differences are:

Reviewer: This paragraph repeats what is listed in the table above, so I think it can be removed (easier to maintain too). If you want to keep it, that it is fine too.

- property `name` does not exist but can be implied from page name
- property `description` and `sources` have another format
- property `data` is always an array of arrays and [data types](#data-types) of individual values can differ
- property `schema` is required but it differs in definion of [schema properties](#schema-properties)
- there is no property `licenses` but `license` fixed to plain string value `CC0-1.0` (other license indicators may be possible)

### Data Types

Tabular Data supports four data types that overlap with [Table Schema data types](/standard/table-schema/#field-types):

> - `number` subset of Table Schema [number](/standard/table-schema/#number) (no NaN, INF, or -INF)

Reviewer: Format correction:

```suggestion
- `number` subset of Table Schema [number](/standard/table-schema/#number) (no `NaN`, `INF`, or `-INF`)
```

- `boolean` same as Table Schema [boolean](/standard/table-schema/#boolean)
- `string` subset of Table Schema [string](/standard/table-schema/#string) (limited to 400 characters at most and must not include `\n` or `\t`)
- `localized ` refers to an object that maps language codes to strings with same limitations as `string` type.
  This type is not supported in Table Schema.

> Indiviual values in a MediaWiki Tabular Data table can always be `null`, while in Table Schema you need to explicitly list values that should be considered missing in [schema.missingValues](/standard/table-schema/#missingValues).

Reviewer: Typo correction:

```suggestion
Individual values in a MediaWiki Tabular Data table can always be `null`, while in Table Schema you need to explicitly list values that should be considered missing in [schema.missingValues](/standard/table-schema/#missingValues).
```

---
title: Comparison with MediaWiki Tabular Data
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Authors</th>
    <td>Jakob Voß</td>
  </tr>
</table>

[MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/) is the software used to run Wikipedia and related projects of the Wikimedia Foundation, including the media file repository [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/). Commons hosts mostly images but also some records with tabular data. The [MediaWiki Tabular Data Model](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data) was inspired by Data Package version 1 but it slightly differs from current Data Package specification, as described below.

> ## Comparison

Reviewer: If you want to align with https://datapackage.org/guides/csvw-data-package/#property-comparison, you could call this `Property Comparison`

A [MediaWiki tabular data page](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data) describes and contains an individual table of data similar to a [Data Resource](/standard/data-resource/) with inline tabular data. Both are serialized as JSON objects, but the former comes as a page with unique name in a MediaWiki instance (such as Wikimedia Commons).

> ### Top-level fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Top-level properties
```

> MediaWiki Tabular data has three required and two optional top-level fields. Most of these fields map to corresponding fields of a Data Resource:

Reviewer: I suggest to use consistent capitalization everywhere, e.g. `MediaWiki Tabular Data` (also earlier and further).

Reviewer: To avoid confusion with tabular fields, I would call these properties (also further).

```suggestion
MediaWiki Tabular Data has three required and two optional top-level properties. All of these map to Data Resource properties.
```

> Field | Data Resource | Tabular data

Reviewer: https://datapackage.org/guides/csvw-data-package/#columns compares properties for users that know CSVW, but want to know if it is supported in Data Package. I wonder if the same approach would make sense here? It would allow to combine the table with the differences.

For example (see source for markdown):

MediaWiki Tabular Data property | Data Package support | Details
--- | --- | ---
name (implied from page)* | Yes | As [resource.name](/standard/data-resource/#name)
description | Yes | As [resource.description](/standard/data-resource/#description), but without support for [localized strings](#data-types)
data* | Yes | MediaWiki always requires an array of arrays, while Data Package supports other formats as well as data files referred to by path
license | Yes | As [resource.licenses](/standard/data-resource/#licenses) with a `name` (e.g. `CC0-1.0`)
schema* | Yes | As [resource.schema](/standard/data-resource/#schema), see [further](#schema-properties)
sources | Yes | As [resource.sources](/standard/data-resource/#sources), but without support for Wiki markup

Reviewer: If possible, I would also link the MediaWiki Tabular Data property

---|---|--|
name | required | - (page name is used instead)
description | optional (plain string)| optional ([localized strings](#data-types))
data | required (multiple forms) | required
license | - (there is `licenses` instead)| required (plain string `CC0-1.0`)
schema | optional (multiple forms) | required (array of arrays)
sources | optional (array of objects) | optional (Wiki markup)

The differences are:

- field `name` does not exist but can be implied from page name
- field `description` and `sources` have another format
- field `data` is always an array of arrays and [data types](#data-types) of individual values can differ
- field `schema` is required but it differs in definion of [schema fields](#schema-fields)
- there is no field `licenses` but `license` fixed to plain string value `CC0-1.0` (other license indicators may be possible)

> ### Data types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Data Types
```

> Tabular data supports four data types that overlap with [Table Schema data types](/standard/table-schema/#field-types):

Reviewer: Similar as suggestion above, we could express table cf. https://datapackage.org/guides/csvw-data-package/#data-types

---

MediaWiki Tabular Data data type | Data Package support | Details
--- | --- | ---
number | Yes | As [number](/standard/table-schema/#number) field type, which has more extensive support
boolean | Yes | As [boolean](/standard/table-schema/#boolean) field type
string | Yes | As [string](/standard/table-schema/#string) field type, but without the 400 character limitation and can include `\n` and `\t`
localized | No | 

Missing values in MediaWiki Tabular Data are expressed as `null`, while in Data Package you need to explicitly list values that should be considered missing in [schema.missingValues](/standard/table-schema/#missingValues).

Author: I'd keep it as a list:

- `number` subset of Table Schema [number](/standard/table-schema/#number) (no NaN, INF, or -INF)
- `boolean` same as Table Schema [boolean](/standard/table-schema/#boolean)
- `string` subset of Table Schema [string](/standard/table-schema/#string) (limited to 400 characters at most and must not include `\n` or `\t`)
- `localized ` refers to an object that maps language codes to strings with same limitations as `string` type.
   This type is not supported in Table Schema.

Indiviual values in a MediaWiki Tabular Data table can always be `null`, while in Table Schema you need to explicitly list values that should be considered missing in [schema.missingValues](/standard/table-schema/#missingValues).

- `number` subset of Table Schema
- `boolean` same as Table Schema
- `string` same as Table Schema but limited to 400 characters at most and must not include `\n` or `\t`.
- `localized ` not supported by Table Schema

The `localized` type refers to an object that maps language codes to strings with same limitations as `string` type.

Indiviual values in a table can always be `null` while Table Schema requires definition of special string values to indicate a missing value.

> ### Schema fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Schema Properties
```

> The `schema` field of MediaWiki tabular contains an object with field `fields` just like [Table Schema](/standard/table-schema/) but no other fields are allowed. The definition of individual schema fields also differs as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `schema` field of MediaWiki tabular contains an object with field `fields` just like [Table Schema](/standard/table-schema/) but no other fields are allowed.
```

> Field | Table Schema | Tabular data

Reviewer: Cf. suggestions above

MediaWiki Tabular Data field property | Data Package support | Details
--- | --- | ---
name* | Yes | As [field.name](/standard/table-schema/#name)
type* | Yes | As [field.type](/standard/table-schema/#type)
title | Yes | As [field.title](/standard/table-schema/#title), but without support for localized strings

Author: changed to:

| MediaWiki Tabular Data Property | Data Package Table Schema
|--|--|
| [name](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (required) must be a string matching `^[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z_0-9]*` | [name](/standard/table-schema/#name) (required) can be any string
| [type](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (required) is one of the [Data Types above](#data-types) | [type](/standard/table-schema/#type) (optional) with [different data types](#data-types)
| [title](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Tabular_data#Top-level_fields) (optional) is a localized string | [title](/standard/table-schema/#title) (optional) is a plain string
